---
ID: 180
post_title: Be Kind to Geeks
author: Don
post_excerpt: ""
layout: page
permalink: >
  https://geek-dom.com/geek-appreciation/be-kind-to-geeks/
published: true
post_date: 2020-01-26 00:57:48
---
<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>**Preface to Geeks reading this**<br>Geeks, you have a gift...the gift of understanding technology.  That gift could be natural ability, the ability to read a manual and apply it, the ability to search for the knowledge, or the combination of all these.  To modify the saying, with tech powers, comes some responsibilities.  Patience - My philosophy is a 3 to 5 rule...I try to keep patient the first 3 to 5 times I answer the same question, explain something, or fix the same problem/item.  Everyone has limits, but please keep kindness in your heart as you help the non-Geeks of the world.</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph {"fontSize":"medium"} -->
<p class="has-medium-font-size">Guide to being kind to the Geeks in your life</p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph -->
<p>Everyone knows someone in their life that can be cool enough to be part of Geek-Dom.  One of the earliest jobs I had in my home growing up was setting the clocks on microwaves, VCR's, and any other digital clock because of power outages, new devices, or day light savings.  This evolved into connecting and fixing anything home entertainment system.  This was the path of my becoming the family Geek.<br><br>In today's technological culture, technology is a basic part of many every day things, but not every can or will keep up with using that technology.  Technology isn't perfect (sorry Apple users, Mac and iPhones/iPads have loads of issues also).  In the past, you had to have a good doctor, mechanic, and lawyer.  Now, Geek seems to be a more essential addition to that list.  Anything worthy of falling in the Geek-Dom domain seems to have it's own languages and rules that can be confusing for those not down with the Geek so please keep reading as I try to make a bridge of understanding and explain the Geek view and way of life and ways to be more understanding and appreciate of those technological saviors in your life.<br><br><strong>Myth, misconceptions, and excuses/malarkey (yep, I used malarkey)</strong><br><br>This will be a hard pill to swallow, but we need to clear up a few things that are total bunk<br><br><strong>The Cloud</strong><br>It doesn't exist.  They sell it like this magical thing that exists in the heavens....it doesn't.  It's just storing you info on someone else's equipment.  Google has server (mega computers) in the Midwest, south, and west.  In the most basic terms, you are storing your files on your friends computer.<br><br><strong>Infinite password memory</strong><br>We just don't have it...at least not me.  I use an app called LastPass to help me keep track of my personal passwords.  In my professional career, I've had to know thousands of passwords that were usually longer than the standard: minimum of 8 characters, 1 upper and 1 lower case letter, and number or special character.  Yes, even I have to go through those security questions even if I thought I knew the password.  So it's a myth that I can remember a password I helped you set 5 days, weeks, months, or years.<br><br><strong>It has a power cord or connects to the internet so we must know</strong><br>Totally false... You have a device that runs on some power...be it computer, phone, tablet, drone, etc.  Let me ask you... You can get in a vehicle that has an engine and runs-aka your car.  So applying non-Geek to Geek expectations...it has an engine and controls...then you can operate anything with an engine and controls.  Drive manual transmission, diesel, anything that has an engine and control...planes, trains, and automobiles.  Sounds stupid, right...  But that is what is expected of Geeks...it's a device with power and maybe internet, so then we must be experts. Those of us that are good with technology get the burden of being expected to know everything.  We are damn good, but not omnipotent. <br><br><strong>You work on computers for a living</strong><br>So I'm going to say this applies directly to me.  Yes, I am in the Information Technology (IT) field, but I don't work on computers...I don't install Windows, add memory, connect printers, etc.  I work on servers.  In this day and age, everything is digital.  I don't have physical servers that I work on so no parts to replace or power cords to connect.  <br><br><strong>We are on call  24/7 for everyone</strong><br>Wrong!!!  What do you do for a living?  Unless you're in IT, I bet you don't show up to parties, family functions, get calls at random times to start doing your lively hood for anyone that reaches out to you.  This happens so often to me.  For example, I recently went to a public event on my day off and I had someone come up to me and say "Oh shoot, I forgot to bring my new phone with me for you to set up".  That's rude.  I wasn't asked.  No heads up given.  It was just expected that 1-I would work on it, 2-that I know their phone (I don't, I haven't had that brand of phone in years), 3-that your technology is my top priority, no matter what or when.  Nope. I don't go to bank tellers I know on their day off and ask them to make change.  I know other professions must run into this like doctors and mechanics.   <br><br><strong>We can teach you technology</strong><br>That depends...are you ready to learn it?  No, really ask yourself that.  If you ask us how to do something and either we know how to do it or take the time to research it for you and you retain that information...AWESOME!!!  If you ask us every time you want to xyz on your phone, computer, etc...then we can't teach you because we can't force you to remember the knowledge no matter how many times we tell you.  This leads into the next item.<br><br><strong>Because we're better at technology</strong><br>I've heard this more times than I can count.  "I need you to do this or that"  Well, let me show you how to do it "No, just do it because you're better at technology"... I'm just going to be blunt on this.  If you buy technology that you need us to operate all the time, then don't buy it.  There are things in this world that I would love to have, but know the knowledge required is beyond me....so I don't own a smelting pot or collect coins.<br><br>So with those out of the way, please keep reading.<br><br>We ask questions and tons of them as part of troubleshooting.  Even with my years of experience, I don't know the exact answer to your exact issue based on what you are experiencing or telling me.  We Geeks are very good at translating "something isn't working" into a troubleshooting path, diagnosis, and hopefully a solution.  We ask because we are trying to help...if we weren't, we would tell you first thing we don't know to get rid of you. <br><br><strong>Have you rebooted/Have you tried turning it off and on again</strong><br>This has become cliche, joke, and frustrating question to non-Geeks, but it is a serious troubleshooting question.  As a life long Geek and an IT (Information Technology - professional Geek) Administrator I have asked this question thousands of times...why?  Because of experience.  During my years of working for a help desk, this solved at least 60% of all problems users called in with.  Why?  Have you ever had a head ache or tummy ache and took a nap, then woke up feeling better?  It's the same with electronics, a lot of times some mundane task on a computer (say being impatient when Word doesn't immediately open when you double click on the icon and 30-40 clicks on the icon bring the computer to a halt) creates a bottleneck in the system.  So just like when you rest after the mundane task of eating something that doesn't agree with you helps your tummy, rebooting your computer gives it a temporary nap and clears a lot of problems up.  So keep this in mind the next time you're asked...and if you say you have rebooted when you haven't - shame shame on you!<br><br><strong>What were you doing when (insert problem) happened/When did this start</strong><br>We don't ask you this tell you that you did something wrong or stupid...it's all part of troubleshooting.  Were you cleaning around your desk and now your monitor doesn't work...so maybe a cable came loose.  The power went off and after it came back on, your computer won't power on...maybe the breaker in your surge protector (because we always use those, right?) tripped and you just need to push the reset button.  We weren't there when the issue occurred so you are our eyes, ears, hands, and recording of the events and most of the time you are talking to us is over the phone so we can't look at things ourselves.<br><br><strong>Why is this happening/What's wrong/It's not working right</strong><br>That is a fully loaded question.  What's happening, what's wrong and what is right?  Let me begin.  In my house, I have 1 dell tower pc, 1 lenovo laptop, 1 macbook, 1 mac-mini, 1 nas (network attached storage) 10 Raspberry Pi's, 2 network printers, multiple UPS (battery backups), my wife's laptop, 4-H laptop, printers, NEST and Amazon devices...and yet, I have no clue about your "it's not working".  Tell me about it.  I have an answer...it can be either "I don't know...no clue" or "what device"....it all depends on how honest you are or how much you answer or listen"...sorry again, Geeks are a resource, but it's up to you to access us.<br><br><br></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->

<!-- wp:paragraph {"fontSize":"medium"} -->
<p class="has-medium-font-size"><br></p>
<!-- /wp:paragraph -->